
For those familar with more common networks, CAN bus has a few
surprising properties.  A CAN bus needs termination and at least two
active nodes to work correctly.  It has a fixed node ID assignment that
can result in conflicts, and these conflict can masquerade as physical
layer ("wiring") problem.

Termination

A CAN bus is supposed to have 120 ohm termination resistor at each
end.  For testing on a short network I use a single 80 ohm resistor.
It will even work with a single 120 ohm resistor.  But it won't work
without a resistor, and may not work with more than two.

Automotive CAN networks usually have the terminating resistors designed
into the body wiring.  Individual nodes generally have no termination
resistor.  This includes plug-in OBD2 readers, such as a ELM327 reader.

Industrial CAN devices often have a jumper option on each node to enable
a built-in 120ohm termination resistor.  This initially seems
convenient, but is more likely to lead to an incorrectly terminated
network.

Network partners

CAN bus relies on active listeners to correctly transmit a frame.  Close
to the end of transmission the sender briefly listens.  All listeners
that have correctly received the frame to that point send a single ACK bit.

If the sender does not hear an ACK, it assumes that the transmission was
corrupted.  Unexpectedly, any listeners that don't hear a valid ACK bit
also assume that the frame was corrupted, even if they thought they sent
an ACK bit.

ELM327 adapters have no termination and default to silent mode unless
they are requesting data.  That means they won't send an ACK bit.  If
there is not another active lister, they won't receive the frame and the
link partner will always get a transmit error.

Semi-passive listeners like the ELM327 can result in a locked-in-failure
cycle.  A CAN node can try to transmit and give up from failures.  While
it is recovering it won't send ACK bits.  The ELM327 then tries to send,
but gets transmit errors from no ACK bits.  It gives up and goes
inactive just as the other node tries to respond.

If using an ELM327 v1.42b and later as the only other bus device, turn
silent monitoring off with "AT CSM1".  Otherwise it will only provide
the ACK to messages it is listening to, or while it is waiting for a
response.

